
















































1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



2 

Table of Contents  
 
Introduction 4 

What is MAVRO? 5 

About MAVRO 5 

Vision of the MAVRO Team 6 

MLM Market Analysis 6 

Statement of the Problem 7 

Solution to the Problem 8 

Intro to decentralized currency 11 

Network Obscurity 12 

Impact and Regulatory Constraint 13 

Secure Transactions 13 

Investing without Constraints 14 

Remittance 14 

Flexibility 15 

MAVRO Foundation 16 

Foundation Outline 16 

How MAVRO Works? 17 

Road Map 19 

MAVRO Architecture 20 

Overview 20 

Objectives 20 

The MAVRO Platform - A Borderless Platform for Investors 21 

MAVRO System 29 

Outline of ICO 30 

ICO Summary 33 

Allocations & Supply 34 

MAVRO Wallet 34 

Easy to send, Easy to receive MAVRO 35 

CONCLUSION 38 

 



3 

Disclaimer 
 
The following White Paper should not and does not amount to or establish a plan, an overview or 

any sort of request for the following project, neither does the following document in any manner 

or capacity amount a business offering nor a request for an offer of or to acquire or purchase 

securities regardless of the manner. The following document is simply an outline of the project’s 

scope and motives.  

There are certain assumptions and announcements within the following document, White Paper 

which amount to money focused data points and items, which should constitute anticipated 

values for these data points but can only be determined within reasonable accuracy. Thus this 

document includes expectations known and hidden, only determined through assumption and 

can therefore result in dangers and burdens which may cause final result to contrast the outlined 

document below because of its forward seeking nature. 

The following White Paper is the team’s best attempt to summarize the data regarding the token 

launch and project scope for the MAVRO token. With the advancement of the following document 

and project, the final translation of any discrepancies in data points, values, information or 

general insight should be reverted back to its natural English language and utilized from that 

standpoint. The following assumptions, assertions, data points, values, market assumptions, 

conditions, and many other extraneous factors may affect the outcome and claims made in this 

paper.  

The following white paper has been written in good faith and with the best of resources 

available. We look forward to sharing the journey with you. 



4 

Introduction 
 
MAVRO V2.0 Project will create a payment solution platform for Multi-Level Marketing (MLM) 

companies. The platform will be the first in the world to cater to existing and new MLM firms 

throughout the world. The MAVRO project will be the first decentralized and absolutely 

transparent MLM system based upon blockchain technology and powered by the Ethereum 

blockchain. This will be accomplished through the exchanging of the token and the development 

of a decentralized application platform, which connects the gap between blockchain technological 

innovations into the booming MLM industry.  

Furthermore, the MAVRO team is poised for success as having been working on the development 

and deployment of projects in the financial and crypto-currency sectors since 2011. Finally, the 

project comes from Sergei Mavrodi- an ideologist and creator, with the support of his 

development team, positioning the MAVRO project for success. The revamp of the MAVRO token 

comes after a successful listing on major global-list cryptocurrency markets such as Yobit.com 

and coin listing websites such as CoinMarketCap.com. With this, the team now hopes to further 

create success within the MLM marketplace by creating a platform for these companies to 

operate within while generating true value for both operators and users. 

For the success of the project to be achieved there must be two main objectives. First, increased 

security and protection from regulatory bodies throughout the world. Second, exponentially 

more transparency between users and businesses to avoid acts of human infallibility. With the 

creation of MAVRO, transparency within the Multi-Level Marketing industry will increase the 

validity and trust regarding many aspects of the business model such as authenticity, moral 

directives and consistency with accurate and up-to-date laws, guidelines, and guidelines for the 

clients.  The main idea of the project is to create a global, decentralized MLM system based on 



5 

the cryptocurrency's inherent value. Most financial projects stop their activities because of 

human factors such as greed or external factors such as legislative regulations issued by the 

state. With these internal and external factors at play- it’s vital to utilize a blockchain solution 

that provides payment solutions as well as doing so in a transparent manner.  

What is MAVRO? 
 
Ideologically the MAVRO project aims to transform the MLM marketplace. MAVRO will be an 

ERC23 token which utilizes the Ethereum blockchain platform to help revolutionize the $178B 

MLM industry throughout the world. With a strong development and leadership team, the 

MAVRO project has ambitious goals to establish itself as the go-to payment solution and 

transparency platform for all MLM ventures across the globe. With this, the MAVRO team plans 

to launch a Version 2.0 of the token and raise capital to achieve this goal using the newly 

created ICO funding mechanisms. Through this, MAVRO will build and establish the largest peer-

to-peer MLM marketplace in the world. 

About MAVRO 
 
MAVRO is the flagship of the first decentralized and absolutely transparent platform for Multi-

Level Marketing structures based on Blockchain Ethereum, which is almost impossible to 

destroy. It neatly passes through all loopholes in the legislation, without violating any laws. 

First, the cryptocurrency has no legal personality, and secondly, there is no such law that would 

prohibit such cryptocurrencies. Furthermore, the project will help provide people with confidence 

through its translucent nature. The direct sales networking style often utilized within this 



6 

industry often becomes dependent upon a system of trust.  With this dependency, a transparent 

platform will be the key to success. 

Vision of the MAVRO Team 
 
The objective of MAVRO Team is to enhance the experience of utilizing the multi-level marketing 

model for both businesses utilizing the model and consumers or users who enjoy the benefits of 

working within such a model. Within the MLM marketplace currently there are a host of issues 

that relate to financing and transparency. The team at MAVRO hopes to provide the perfect 

solution to this problem with a peer-to-peer system that will completely eliminate many of the 

current problems faced by the multi-level marketing industry.  

MLM Market Analysis 
 
In this section, we will review the MLM market as a whole. Furthermore, we will provide an 

overview of the top five current MLM on the market.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



7 

Statement of the Problem 
 
The current problem with the MLM market place rests with payment processing. Governments 

across the world regulate this marketplace thoroughly. With these strict regulations, many 

traditional financial solutions are simply not available. MLM companies often face financing 

troubles through these government restrictions, thus halting their ability to progress their cause. 

This unjustly and negatively impacts the industry as a whole as precious resources are expended 

simply to keep up with regulatory overhead. Let’s dive deeper into each of these points for a 

moment, starting first with the regulatory issues.  

 

At the current time, there are a host of regulatory issues with operating or owning a multi-level 

marketing company. Many countries outright ban the practice which force companies to find 

creative ways to still operate. Sometimes even companies cannot operate in a market at all 

because of these regulatory restrictions. Even with these creative ways  to enter a market and 

operate within that market, this can often lead to more overhead and thus less productivity and 

profits for the company. Yet, if we can eliminate these regulatory burdens- we will naturally 

increase the productivity and thus, bottom line of the company operating under this heavily 

regulated marketplace. This is just one example of how MAVRO plans to disrupt and improve the 

current multi-level marketing industry. 

 

The other issues often arise from users or business operators acting as bad actors within the 

system. This exists because much of the multi-level marketing industry relies upon trust. Thus, 

there can be weak points in the system or model that are exploited by bad actors. The necessity 

for trust applies to both users and business. For example, trust that a sales associate isn’t selling 



8 

products under the table or that a business is properly recording the sales numbers a certain 

team member brings in- so that they can be properly rewarded with their payment.  

Solution to the Problem 
 
The solution of the MLM payment problem relies upon a peer-to-peer network in which 

companies and users can rest assured with their products and services are being compensated 

for properly. To do so, the use of this peer-to-peer network can become the key. The nature of 

this network in and of itself will provide better security and transparency to the MLM 

marketplace. The security of funds will strengthen the marketplace and allow companies, 

business people, and entrepreneurs to seize upon lucrative MLM marketplace.  

 

The MAVRO project will become the solution to this problem. With the advantages in a peer-to-

peer network include security from outside influence such as governments and regulatory 

agencies. Furthermore, a peer-to-peer network establishes trust among users that can lead to 

greater transparency for both payment providers but also the actors within a MLM system. For 

example, businesses can deploy a product to a huge variety of users through the peer-to-peer 

network which in return will allow these users to ensure they are properly paid because the 

system will be based upon a public ledger found on the blockchain.  



9 

Advantages of a decentralized platform 

History of Blockchain 
 
Decentralized digital cash as a concept, an alternative to an old asset and cash systems such as 

registries, has been in existent or at least thought of for many years, even decades. Anonymous 

“e-cash” or “digital cash” systems and protocols during the ‘80s and ‘90s, mostly relied on a 

cryptographic tool which is primitive today and formerly known as Chaumian blinding. This 

method helped provide a currency with a higher degree of security and privacy, but the 

protocols never seemed to gain traction within the community because of their dependency on a 

centralized actor. In 1998, b-money became the world’s first to introduce the concept of creating 

a digital cash system through the computational process of solving puzzles as well as creating a 

decentralized consensus. Yet, the project proposal was lacking of finer points on how 

decentralized consensus could be used and implemented in the real world. Jumping ahead a bit 

further to the year 2005, Hal Finney created a new concept- "reusable proofs of work", which 

was a system utilizing ideas from b-money combined with Hash cash puzzles to create the basic 

concept for a cryptocurrency (Adam Back's computationally difficult), but again fell short of an 

ideal method adopted today because of its reliance on a trusted computing controller as a 

backend. 0F1 These occurring just years prior to the development of Bitcoin, brought us closer to 

the spawn of Bitcoin as we know it today. Yet because currency is prone to double spending 

without proper protocols in place, where the actual order of user’s transactions is often a 

critically important point, these digital assets require a proper solution to decentralized network 

consensus. The main roadblock that many digital currency protocols faced prior to the 

development of Bitcoin is there had been ample amounts of research on developing a secure 

                                                
1 https://web.archive.org/web/20071222072154/http://rpow.net/ 



10 

Byzantine-fault-tolerant multi party consensus systems for many years. Even so, these protocols 

described were only solving half of the problem. These protocol systems operated under the 

assumption that participants in the network were completely known, and produced security 

measures in the form of “if N parties participate, then the system can tolerate up to N/4 

malicious actors".1F2  

Blockchain Importance 
 
Preceding the development of the Bitcoin software, the TCP/IP convention had been used to 

transmit data in an inclusive manner. The development of interconnection innovation (e.g., 

smartphones, internet of things, even simply the internet gaining popularity and hardware 

processing power increases) have acquainted many difficult routes among individuals to 

collaborate, process data and enabled more substances to become digitized or tokenized. Even 

so, data sharing and transmission is not sufficient to meet the advanced needs of the 21st 

century’s financial society. This raises an interesting question among the general population:  

How can we exchange advance payments and incentive from a shared network without an 

intermediary while avoiding the many issues a currency or asset system can have- one of which 

could be double spending. 

Prior to 2009, the world was not ready to answer these questions for exchange resources and 

incentives across a distributed network powered by the Internet without the inclusion of outside 

intermediaries. The Bitcoin development is the principal P2P exchange convention launched after 

the global financial crisis of 2008. To bring it back full circle, the following MAVRO white paper 

we hope to present as a solution to the MLM network, just as bitcoin has been a solution to 

corrupt financial systems around the world. 

                                                
2 http://fermatslibrary.com/s/ethereum-a-next-generation-smart-contract-and-decentralized-application-platform 



11 

With the world getting more integrated each day, an expanding number of organizations offer 

their services of administration and arrangements on the web and through their personal 

network or a direct sales network. Funding, training, insurance, and supply chain management 

are quickly currently moving towards digitization. 

With all this, MAVRO 2.0 is expected to give a premier solution and experience for multi-level 

marketers, while reinforcing the structure by utilizing a peer-to-peer blockchain powered system 

and network. 

Intro to decentralized currency 
 
Many different inventive cryptocurrency frameworks in the market today exists, a large portion 

of which are based on platforms like cell phones, the Internet, and computer graphics card or 

processors. These electronic payment frameworks have witnessed a difference from any 

resemblance of PayPal, Apple Pay, Google wallet, Transfer wise, and others. The old and past 

payment frameworks depend on fiat money. While the development of computerized cash takes 

into consideration faster, more malleable, and, emerges more creative payments in financing 

new products and ventures. Once computerized money or digital cash gains popularity among 

the rest of the options available to the market. 

Being the first cryptocurrency, Bitcoin is a standout among the most educated computerized 

monetary standards today. In particular, Bitcoin can be described as a cryptographic money or 

digital cash system, which is a subset of the industry known as cryptocurrency. Bitcoin is an 

amazing technological innovation as well as a groundbreaking digital currency which is widely 

thought to be the first to exist with success. In the same manner as other cryptocurrencies and 



12 

assets made after it, Bitcoin operates from the energy of computers and the power of the 

Internet to process its transactions.  

Network Obscurity 
 
The motivation behind a decentralized cash network, such as, Bitcoin has gone mainstream 

among individuals as a direct cause of its innate security. This type of system of money enables 

individuals to make transactions privately and securely on a public ledger. This feature started 

the Bitcoin enthusiasts’ movement in the early 2010’s.  

The bottom line implications of utilizing Bitcoin to purchase items online or through in-person 

transactions is that there is a minimal chance of that exchange being followed- even though on a 

public ledger. Decentralized currency allows exchanges to fundamentally be altered compared to 

what they previously offered with many intermediary companies involved in the exchange of 

assets or even cash. This is truly extraordinary, in many cases, from utilizing a financial balance 

or personal Bitcoin wallet, where your private assets are safe by your own private key. 

Furthermore, interest can be unveiled through the record number which exists on the public 

ledger. Yet, regarding the MAVRO payment system- the majority of your transactions are 

unknown and unable to be traced. 

However at the same time, the public nature of the ledger allows for the transparency. This 

model is needed for a successful MLM venture for both the users and businesses implementing a 

direct sales model. This transparency is key within the MLM space as it allows users to operate 

safely and securely gather their payment from businesses operating this sales model. The 

businesses also benefit from increased transparency as it creates a system which rewards trust 

and best practices. 



13 

Impact and Regulatory Constraint 
 
The Decentralized cash networks do not have control measures or regulators directly influencing 

their value and their cost are determined by clients and users of the network. Furthermore, the 

system does not have regulatory constraints- at least at the current time, across most of the 

world. This implies nobody local, national, or anywhere is responsible for monetary policy or 

supply of the asset. This is the huge significance behind the term "decentralized". This digital 

cash has the capacity to function within society at unprecedented levels. No other money or cash 

system before Bitcoin has ever been made to be decentralized. All monetary forms that are not 

digital cash are resolved, governed, and regulated by some sort of government, international 

agency or non-governmental organization. Along these lines, Bitcoin or any other decentralized 

digital cash cannot be controlled by those in power of these organizations across the globe.  

Secure Transactions  
 
Users of a digital cash system will utilize a distinctive encryption method to verify the exchange 

of the cash or asset, which again- is not reliant on a national bank or outside agency. Instead, 

the system synchronizes the decentralized monetary standards across the network of users. 

These cryptographic forms of digital cash are decentralized and it offers an extremely secure 

network condition. Furthermore, the network powered by an algorithm offers a higher level of 

security than ever before. Trust factors and double spending problems are limited with the 

cryptocurrency model as the use of a public ledger completes the system.  



14 

Investing without Constraints 
 
There are a host of reasons as to why decentralized cryptocurrency standards are viewed as a 

superior system to the old and typical monetary standards. A decentralized monetary standard 

gives a high level of security as the system is managed from numerous PCs, which are only 

connected for the purpose of managing the system, which brings individual incentives. With this, 

it gives users the flexibility of doing exchanges without regulatory constraints or any direct 

interference. Besides all of this value, the simple fact is that the costs of this system are also 

less.  The technological advancements of cryptocurrency now allow users to benefit by not being 

restricted from state or country regulations while transacting. This lightens the load for both 

businesses and consumers in terms of transaction costs and overhead expenses.  

Remittance  
 
Settlement of assets can be identified as a specific measure of a currency, which is sent by one 

actor to another actor as a payment for goods or services. Monetary policy specialists seek to 

lower and diminish the cost involved in this process while expanding the transaction speed 

through the assistance of technological innovation. This task has turned out to be extremely vital 

to solve the worldwide issue of settlement of assets and the remittance of payments. Many 

organizations, governments, and non-governmental agencies need to execute more assets 

between various countries than current volumes of transactions can handle without a high jump 

in costs. Cryptocurrency quickly has become a solution to this problem through its innovative 

use of blockchain technology.  



15 

Flexibility  
 
One of the main points of interest for a decentralized monetary framework is instead of merging 

the opportunity and management of these activities into the whims of a solitary, local specialist, 

it distributes those qualities to the users taking an interest in the system or network. This 

general favorable circumstance of a decentralized and dispersed framework is the fact that the 

system is more secure than other methods of exchanges. In closing, blockchain models that are 

based upon distributed frameworks are open source and decentralized to give users an 

aggregate opportunity over traditional exchanges and assets. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



16 

MAVRO Foundation 

Foundation Outline 
 
Many of the best fiat cash based MLM companies and models are accessible in the marketplace 

today. Yet, some of the former best actors within this industry have been forced out of exists by 

governmental regulations. Today there still exist a few issues, which produce problems for the 

payment gateway clients within this industry. Here we present a list of current problems facing 

the MLM companies and industry as a whole.  

● International & hazardous payments  

● High Fees 

● Third party involvement in payment framework  

● Slow transaction speeds  

● High security only possible through human operators that are prone to corruption or mistakes  

● Many payment solutions can hold your funds when they need or want  

● High record keeping cost keep transactions fees high 

● Recurring charges can exist with these accounts 

 

Despite these facts that there are various alternatives regarding the web payment handling MLM 

transactions, the overall system is flawed and this is a key component of MAVRO’s existence. 

Further among the most noteworthy flaws are set up and account establishment charges, 

security of client data and transactions, transaction processing time, adaptability of monetary 



17 

policy, terms and conditions for each and every different country. Finally, this all leads to high 

fees and a poor system for the customers. With all of these problems existing, MAVRO gives 

users and companies of MLM structure an absolute advantage in conquering these current 

obstacles. 

How MAVRO Works?  
 
MAVRO 2.0 aims to create a calculated structure by solving the financial processing problems 

faced by the Multi-Level Marketing industry. By leveraging the latest in technological 

developments, the MAVRO model is superior to the majority of the real businesses that operate 

in the marketplace today. The model proposes measures to altogether enhance the payment 

processing solutions offered to MLM firms. Without a cryptocurrency-based solution, the MLM 

marketplace will continue to operate at a subpar efficiency level because of the regulatory 

burdens faced as well as the inherently human problems, such as greed. 

Through the principal Blockchain-based stage for secure and quick payment arrangements, the 

MAVRO model designs the best solution on the marketplace currently. Furthermore, through the 

use of a Smart Contract, the programmed payment confirmation framework affirms payment on 

both sides of the transaction. It guarantees the ideal concepts of self-rule, security, network 

confidence and transaction speed. No controls are available within the system without network 

confirmation. There is no danger of double spending and further security measures exists with 

private keys and a member’s personal bank or wallet. Since the contracts are intended to keep 

up these activities through digital protocol, users do not have to be worried about funds or 

distribution adding to the transparency and efficiency of the MAVRO system. 



18 

The MAVRO economy will take after the shared MLM economy. Where individuals can send 

payment to someone else quickly and directly without the interference or need for any outside 

administrations or contribution from banks, governments or any organizations. This will allow 

the currently restricted marketplace of MLM to seize upon a new payment solution and open the 

door to further transparency in the marketplace. With more transparency, there will be an 

increased level of trust between users, salespeople, and network operators which previously did 

not exist in this marketplace. With this increase in transparency, we hope to encourage and 

nourish a healthy, functional, and sustainable MLM network. 

 



19 

Road Map 
 
 

 

 

 

 



20 

MAVRO Architecture 

Overview 
MAVRO is an Organization created to provide a decentralized technology solution for MLM 

payment processing and support the MLM users and businesses through transparency and a 

public ledger. The open and decentralized MLM platform will include an API and wallet that are 

going to change the entire MLM industry worldwide. The innovation of smart contracts will power 

the bounty system making it transparent and decentralized as well. All of these features will 

become powerful replacements to the current market solutions. 

Objectives 
MAVRO arrangement is accessible to unravel the critical issues facing the MLM marketplace. This 

project is currently at a stage where it is 100% committed for the population of an online 

economy where individuals utilizing ERC23 TOKEN standards can have a safer work practice. To 

effectively allow payments across borders of nations and states in a genuine term, one needs to 

send cash utilizing MAVRO token system to another person. The recipient gets an almost instant 

transaction with extremely low network costs and thus lower transaction fee. All of which is done 

on a blockchain platform that promotes transparency, a valuable asset to both MLM users and 

businesses. 

Furthermore, MAVRO has the operating principles of a digital cash system that leverage digital 

resources, improvement to the system through network consensus, and operates with low costs. 

Assets acquired by the MAVRO network will be utilized to enhance the network itself and the 



21 

token, while maintaining the end goal to establish a proper platform within this exciting and for-

the-people industry of multi-level marketing. 

The MAVRO Platform - A Borderless Platform for 
Investors to Manage a Distributed Investment Fund 
 “A Platform Built for Transparency Helps the Industry Grow” - Sergey Mavrodi 

 

Major Obstacles to Multi Level Marketing Industry 

● The industry continually struggles to get fair access to banking solutions 

● Many of the world’s leading governments have over regulated the industry 

● The lack of transparency in the industry allows bad actors to operate 

● Complexity of Accounting for the industry 

● Reputation Costs  

 

Major Solutions For Multi Level Marketing Companies 

• MAVRO tokens can operate as payment solutions when needed 

• The government can’t over regulate a distributed network and decentralized 

database 

• Transparency within the blockchain itself stops bad actors 

• The automated system for calculated payments will make accounting easy 

• A built in reputation management system will be implemented to respond quickly 

to bad press 

 



22 

MAVRO Protocol: How it will work 

The MAVRO protocol establishes a new norm for the multi level marketing industry through the 

implementation of technology solutions yet to be leveraged by the niche industry.  

 

Overview of the MAVRO Protocol 

The MAVRO protocol will establish a new standard for the over regulated and burdened multi 

level marketing industry. The industry has been plagued with over regulation which causes 

excess operating costs and a lower bottom-line for the users. Within a given network, these 

costs can run up to 20% and more of a company’s expense sheet. With the implementation of 

the MAVRO Token and MAVRO protocol a multi level marketing company can save over double-

digit percentage cuts in their operating expenses. This alone can generate millions of dollars in 

downstream revenue for the users of the MAVRO platform which will be powered by the token 

itself. Furthermore, many of the benefits for the platform have been tailored to specifically 

benefit the niche industry that exist with multi level marketing companies such as the reputation 

manager and automated payment calculator.  

 

The MAVRO protocol will consist of an Ethereum based smart contract system which will 

establish a new standard for the burgeoning multi level marketing industry. Through this 

implementation users and businesses alike will be able to tap into a secure, trusted and 

transparent contract system. Furthermore, users will have access to a contract system which 

can generate a bounty program that will benefit the entirety of the network. This solution will 

help empower users and encourage best practices through transparent methods. The bounty 

program will be powered by smart contracts. These digital agreements will empower users and 

businesses alike to have increased trust and transparency within the system. Since the contracts 



23 

are established within the code or known to some as modern day, digital law and can only be 

executing when a specific if, then sequence has been established- they create the perfect 

solution for the industry's troubles with bad actors. 

 

The MAVRO protocol will be tailored to the multi level marketing industry to help establish a new 

norm within the entire industry. Investors, users and businesses alike will be empowered to 

capture more revenue than ever before through the distributed nature of the protocol. 

Furthermore, the advancement of blockchain technology has allowed many of the problems 

faced by the industry to be alleviated nearly completely. The MAVRO team has identified key 

aspects of the multi level marketing industry which are poised for disruption through the 

establishment of the MAVRO protocol. These benefits included increased transparency, a bounty 

program and the creation of a platform of multi level marketing investment opportunities laid 

out in an user friendly manner. 

 

Interaction with Multi Level Marketing Businesses 

Allow better Cash Flow 

Throughout the lifetime of the multi level marketing industry there has been a series of 

government enforced policies and regulations which have continually stifled the innovation within 

the industry. Many of these regulations have been enforced through the banking sector by 

freezing bank accounts and establishing restrictions for companies operating with a multi level 

marketing business model. This has proved to be quite effective in stopping many companies 

from pushing forward with innovative ways to establish their worth in the world. At the same 

time, this puts constraints on existing companies which choose to operate in this over regulated 

niche industry. Thus, their users and customers are the ones who suffer the most through 



24 

decreases in the bottom line. The MAVRO Token and MAVRO platform will solve this problem 

through an increase  liquidity factor. The token itself will be available at market value to users, 

businesses and investors alike. Furthermore, the distributed nature of the platform and 

decentralized capacity of the token itself will empower all involved to have a safety guard 

against over regulation by governments.  

 

Help increase their user flow 

The number of available users to each business should increase with the advancement of this 

MAVRO platform and protocol. The simple safety in which the platform will provide can help 

establish a new norm for the industry which should in turn attract more users to the platform. 

Business can capture an increase in network size through these users and further connect 

between existing, successful and hungry workers looking for the next big opportunity. All and all, 

the network effect will take go into play here which should increase the value of everyone 

involved. Furthermore, as the network grows the results should be returned exponentially to 

those already invested in its success. The users, businesses, and investors of the multi level 

marketing industry will benefit from the shared successes of an increased network. 

 

Reputation Management  

Companies spend millions of dollars on reputation management. The new platform from MAVRO 

though will be faster and more efficient. Even with millions of dollars spent on reputation 

management today, none of the existing solutions for reputation management will be able to 

cope with such a task as efficiently and as quickly. On the MAVRO platform, the function of 

revealing new mentions about the company will execute in an automatic manner. Furthermore, 

tasks for raising the reputation for each mention is realized. For example, if a resource posted 



25 

an article or review of the company's operations, information about this publication automatically 

appears in the personal account of member. Then they are invited to comment on the internal 

points for reward and leave their detailed positive feedback about the company - thus the 

company's reputation with the output of every mention, even negative, only improves. 

 

Interaction with Multi Level Marketing Investors 

More Opportunity 

One of the most exciting aspects of the MAVRO protocol will be to allow investors to invest into 

multiple projects easily and efficiently. The increased transparency on the platform creates a 

unique environment for everyone involved by tapping into the network effect. Investors can see 

more projects and allow them to look at the activity within each business through an analysis of 

the blockchain. At the exact same time, businesses will be able to tap into a network of investors 

unlike ever before which should help them focus on building their operations rather than seeking 

investment for their projects to take flight. The innovation of a distributed ecosystem where 

businesses and investors can benefit from one another will create exponentially more value 

when the network effect takes hold of the platform. Token holders, investors, businesses, and 

users alike will see an increase in their value through the principles of this effect. Let’s dive into 

each category and see how they will specifically benefit from the implementation of the MAVRO 

protocol and MAVRO Token.   

 

Increased Returns on Investment 

One of the main objectives of the MAVRO protocol will be to save investors money and thus 

increase their return on investment. Through the advancement of technology, the overhead the 

companies experience will drop sharply. Thus, with this drop in expenses businesses will be able 



26 

to provide increased returns for investors and thus increase their return on investment. Through 

this process, the investors will benefit from the collective efficiencies which are add to the 

network. Furthermore, the transparency within the network will establish an new norm within 

the extensively over regulated Multi Level Marketing industry and allow investors to ensure they 

are receiving the proper return on their investments.  

 

Furthermore, audits will become easier than ever which should help increase the bottom line for 

all investors involved within the network. Currently within the multi level marketing sector there 

are extensive audit processes which cost thousands of dollars. These processes and audits are 

necessary to ensure that the businesses and the users within the networks are being properly 

paid. However, with the implementation of the MAVRO platform, the need for these audits will 

become absolutely unnecessary.  

 

Interaction with Multi Level Marketing Users 

Increased Opportunity 

The platform plans to launch an additional service tailored to the users which will work as a 

human resource tool. This tool will allow users to quickly find the best opportunity specific to 

their needs. Furthermore, the opportunity presented by the MAVRO token protocol should also 

increase exponentially as the technology factors come into effect. With this, users on the 

platform will be able to access a variety of different opportunities and thus find the best option 

to fit their interest and skill set. The founders of the MAVRO platform hope that this system will 

empower users to find the best fit opportunities for them. Users will have the ability to hand 

select their opportunities which should only increase their efficiency while working for the hand 

selected opportunity. 



27 

 

Decreased Fees 

In a similar capacity to the other actors within the multi level marketing industry’s decrease in 

operating expenses, the users within the marketing verticals should see a sharp decrease in 

their user fees. The overall savings through the implementation of the MAVRO technology and 

platform will create an increasingly more efficient system for users to benefit from. With the 

network effect in full play, users should benefit the most with lower transaction costs and 

increases in transparency which will further prevent their bottom-line from getting eaten up by 

fees and other wasteful inefficiencies. Through these decreases in fees, users will only benefit 

further from their utilization of the MAVRO platform. MAVRO believe that the users will benefit 

almost more so than business owners with these decrease in operating fees since most of these 

fees have been passed onto users in the recent past. 

 

Interaction with MAVRO Token Holders 

Network Effect & Exponential Growth 

The token holders for MAVRO will benefit from the increases empowered through the network 

effect. The network effect creates more value for every user as more users come into the 

picture. This theory has been thoroughly tested throughout the digital age and continually 

proves to be true. There is a nominal value to many applications, products and services but the 

network effect creates exponential as more users enter. The token holders will benefit from this 

network effect more so than anyone- although it surely will benefit the collectively network. The 

MAVRO token holders should experience exponential growth which will be paired directly to the 

network effect. Through and through, the network effect should lead directly into a benefit for all 

involved within the industry. Finally, the MAVRO team believes that the best path forward will 



28 

include a combination of exponential growth and the leveraging of the network effect to properly 

execute on the platform’s potential.  

 

Protocol Liquidity & Security 

The MAVRO token holders will generate an overall network liquidity through the market value of 

the MAVRO token which will be dictated by a factor of supply and demand. With a limited supply 

of the token, the value for token holders should be something which grows. Furthermore, the 

MAVRO protocol alone should establish a security advantage for the holders. This will be 

implemented throughout the MAVRO platform but will have a particular focus from developers 

with regards to token holders stake and ensuring proper security. This should benefit MAVRO 

Token holders and ensure that the value of holding the token remains in tact. With any platform 

the security of the network will always remain a vital sign as to the health of the network. The 

MAVRO team plans to take extra security measures within the MAVRO protocol to allow for the 

proper execution of all system functions. With this, the team has reached out to some of the 

best in class security experts to help with the implementation of the security protocols. 

 
 



29 

MAVRO System 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



30 

Outline of ICO 
The funds raised during this ICO will only be utilized for the development and deployment of the 

Mavro network. The following plan of distribution is preliminary and may be a subject to change 

but establishes a brief and early look at the path to come. An ERC23 Token will be utilized. 

 

MAVRO ICO Hard cap: 100,000 ETH 

Total Amount of Tokens: 625,000,000 

Initial Token Price: 1 ETH = 4700 MVR TOKENS 

 

PHASE 1 - PRE-SALE  

Start date: 21st of January, 2018 (12:00 PM London Time, UTC+1) 

End date: 21st  of February, 2018 (12:00 PM London Time, UTC+1) 

 

MAVRO tokens distribution cap (Phase #1):  

5% of total tokens amount - 25 000 000 MVR tokens 

Currency accepted: ETH, BTC 

Pre-sale bonus 25% 

 

Maximum amount of tokens per one person: 470.000 MVR 

Minimum transaction amount: 0.01 ETH 

Maximum transaction amount: x ≈ 100 ETH 

 

 

PHASE 2 - ICO 

Start date: 15th of March, 2018 (12:00 PM London Time, UTC+1) 

End date: 15th of April, 2018 (12:00 PM London Time, UTC+1) 

 



31 

 

MAVRO tokens distribution cap (Phase #2):  

Total tokens amount - 475 000 000 MVR tokens 

Currency accepted: ETH, BTC, BCC, DASH, LTC 

 

Maximum amount of tokens per one person: 470.000 MVR 

Minimum transaction amount: 0.01 ETH 

Maximum transaction amount: x ≈ 100 ETH 

 
Budget Allocation   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 



32 

Token Allocation 
 

 

 
MAVRO Bounty System  
 
 

 

 



33 

ICO Summary 
 

 
 

 

 



34 

Allocations & Supply 
 
There are two main ways individuals can be included with a digital asset. There will be those who 

work for the distribution versus those who invest directly into it. In these two cases, the system 

will outline the specific money and how exactly it is being utilizing. Even though we are using the 

ERC23 token and a payment system, particularly intended for the worldwide associate to MLM 

payment industry, this platform will create a unique value.  

In the early stage, we will launch the MAVRO token in an open ICO. Through an open ICO, the 

MAVRO team will use the advancement for purposes such as office setup, technological 

frameworks, development and improvement of the existing MLM systems with an abundance of 

programs and other exercises.  

In the second stage, the MAVRO token will be distributed in a transparent manner for all clients, 

users, and those who purchase, offer, exchange or hold the MAVRO token. The exchanges will 

then be added to buy, offer, trade or sell MAVRO through an open market.  The development 

and founding team will release more information about it in up and coming press releases, blog 

posts and community notices.  

MAVRO Wallet 
 
Online wallets have reliably accepted advancement for cryptographic money and digital assets to 

be stored for clients. These applications are continuously being improved even if in simple ways. 

To utilize the MAVRO wallet clients will simply enroll and their wallet can be accesses via the 

Ethereum network. 

 



35 

Features of  ERC23 token 

● Intended for distributed payments   

● Send and get MAVRO digital currency nearly instantly 

● User friendly mobile wallet interface  

Easy to send, Easy to receive MAVRO 
 
The MAVRO program based ERC23 is efficient and secured with cutting edge technologically 

backed security calculations. Users can transact with MAVRO tokens to other individual or 

vendors within the MAVRO network. 

Instant access  
Login to your Ethereum wallet to access the MAVRO tokens utilizing the login feature. There are 

security features included such as two-factor validation and email authorization to secure your 

account and provide full verification against hackers, thus decreasing the likelihood of burglary.  

Stable connection 
The Ethereum network is almost indestructible thus building the, MAVRO blockchain on top of 

this network will provide a stable connection for users and businesses to rest assures their 

network will always be running.  

Fast transactions  
The speed of transactions is fast and gets delivered in nearly a flash. The Ethereum network and 

foundation continue to work to make these transaction times faster, safer and more secure 

which will only benefit the MAVRO project in the long run.  

 

 



36 

Decentralized Gateway  
Wikipedia states, "A decentralized framework in frameworks hypothesis is a framework in 

which bring down level segments work on neighborhood data to finish worldwide 

objectives." This objective becomes possible to achieve; many frameworks exists or 

individuals working to develop a solution. Be that as it may this requires more than one 

platform to be associated with it. 

 



37 

Team 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sergey Mavrodi 

MAVRO Adviser 

The Father of MMM community 

The Father of MMM Global 

MAVRO Cryptocurrency ideologist 

Victor Geld 

MAVRO Adviser 

Creator of MAVRO Cryptocurrency 

MMM Global Co-Founder  

MMM Ideologist in South America, Africa, and 
Asia regions 

 

 

 “The team of blockchain developers want to remain anonymous, probably because of my 

name, which the corrupt media so diligently have slandered and damaged. 

Apparently, the team hasn't realized how revolutionary this project is that they are  

working on. They had a chance to leave their names in the history books, because 

MAVRO will be  a financial ark for all the mankind.” 

Sergey Mavrodi 

 

 

 

 

 



38 

CONCLUSION 
 
MAVRO is something other than a token. MAVRO is an innovation set to disrupt the MLM industry 

through a focus on distributed payments, mass payments and a focus on transparency- which 

the MLM industry truly needs. MAVRO resembles a movement into the associated peer-to-peer 

cryptographic money payment world. Customary payment framework allows users to oversee 

and keep up the frameworks. While with regards to MAVRO, less support from governments and 

regulatory agencies will lighten the burden for businesses and users operating on this model 

while providing less exchange charges, and setting up the most extreme advantages to the 

clients and users of the MAVRO platform.  

MAVRO offers not only a decentralized payment solution with the development of the blockchain, 

but also a feasible economy that produces, oversees and safely transacts a vast number of 

exchanges each and every day. Thus, MAVRO plans to disrupt the huge, 178-billion-dollar 

market place which exists today as a multi-level marketing.  

 

 


	Introduction
	What is MAVRO?
	About MAVRO
	Vision of the MAVRO Team
	MLM Market Analysis
	Statement of the Problem
	Solution to the Problem
	Intro to decentralized currency
	Network Obscurity
	Impact and Regulatory Constraint
	Secure Transactions
	Investing ​without​ Constraints
	Remittance
	Flexibility

	MAVRO Foundation
	Foundation Outline
	How MAVRO Works?
	Road Map

	MAVRO Architecture
	Overview
	Objectives
	The MAVRO Platform - A Borderless Platform for Investors to Manage a Distributed Investment Fund
	MAVRO System
	Outline of ICO

	ICO Summary
	Allocations​ ​&​ ​Supply
	MAVRO Wallet
	Easy​ ​to​ ​send, Easy to​ ​receive MAVRO

	CONCLUSION

